here's our roundup of the best video and
it is for Android right now including a
review of the leading options and our
top pick for which one takes the title
of best video editing app on Android hey
it's Justin Brown here from primal video
where we help you amplify your business
and brand with video if you're new here
make sure you click that subscribe
button and all the links to everything I
mentioned in this video you can find
linked in the description box below so
let's jump into it
okay so there's heaps of options out
there you've got things like adobe clip
quick power director in shot killer
master you cut action director we video
and leave the video and we've put them
through their paces but the biggest
thing you'll find is that most of the
apps out there aren't really video
editing apps they'll let you maybe trim
off the center or the end of a clip and
maybe throw a filter on or it's
completely themed based or template
based where you don't even get to
control the Edit you just tell it which
Clips you'd like to include and it'll go
ahead and cut something for you that's
not really video editing but the apps on
our short list the ones that we're about
to cover I standout editing apps that
will actually let you edit your videos
and have full control over them just
like you would on a desktop computer so
from all of those our short list is made
up of in shot Kiner master and power
director now before we get to our top
pick let's take a look at each one of
these in a little bit more detail in
short is a super easy to use really
intuitive video editing app and it's
something that was really surprising to
me just how powerful it is and how easy
it is to use it's probably the fastest
app out there to be able to edit your
videos down really quickly but we're
talking simple edits here not really
really advanced edits it's got really
great color correction options and
filters and things that you can apply
across your video and it supports all
the major video sizes or formats making
perfect for creating social media
content now as I said the app itself the
overall interface is really really
intuitive and really easy to use and
it's actually totally unlike any of the
other more professional video editing
applications this is definitely on the
simpler end and the more basic end but
it's still for what it is it's really
really powerful it doesn't have all the
extra fancy features and things like
support for multiple video layers or
multiple audio layers there's no
advanced
video or audio editing features like
that you'll find in kenner master and
power director but I really think the
focus for this app isn't on those more
advanced longer form pieces of content
this is more around short sharp social
media posts really it would be perfect
for that now the app itself is free but
there are ads in it there are ads while
you're editing that appear on the side
of the timeline area but also before you
go to do things like save your video out
now if you do wait for that ad to play
before you save out your video then your
video is going to be exported without
any watermarks or branding but obviously
you can pay to remove all the ads and if
you're going to be using this a lot or
you're gonna be using this sort of
business then I definitely think it
would be worthwhile so there's three
pricing options you've got when it comes
to upgrading to the pro version you can
pay a one-time fee of around forty three
dollars and that will give you access to
the pro version for life you can also
pay monthly four dollars thirty nine or
thirteen dollars ninety nine per year to
get access to the pro version on a
subscription basis so overall I think in
shot is a great option for someone who
just wants to make really simple edits
but still have a lot of features and
things in there to be able to do it and
do it fast and do it well and also for
someone that's creating different
versions of their videos for different
social media platforms you'll be able to
do that really well in here but if
you're someone that wants more control
over your editing and more ability to
get more creative in the process then
this probably isn't the right fit for
you the next app on a short list is
Kiner master which is again another
really really easy to use yet so much
more powerful video editing app the
interface is really intuitive and really
easy to find everything and it's
definitely not gonna be overwhelming
it's got a really great feature set and
there's lots of advanced controls in
here things like advanced audio control
and advanced effects support for
multiple video layers and multiple audio
layers as well and there's also some
really powerful cutting and trimming
tools in there things again that you
really only see in more professional
video editing software that they've got
in here as well things are gonna make it
much faster for you to edit your content
down so it's gonna be perfect you're
gonna be working with longer form video
content and shorter content as well but
specifically with the longer content
there's the tools here to help you cut
that down fast it also supports a large
range of file types so if you're going
to be bringing in footage from other
cameras or other
vices there's a good chance that they're
going to work inside of Kiner master
straight out of the box there's also
support for editing and exporting 4k
video files to the app itself does have
in-app purchases so you can buy extra
transitions effects and titles and those
sorts of things and there's also an iOS
version of this as well so if you're
someone that has a mix of devices some
hand royde some iOS then you can
actually get the same app and have the
same experience on both of those some of
the downsides or some of the areas that
Kinder Master could probably improve on
would be things like the color
correction it's got really basic color
correction tools but they're definitely
not great and they're definitely on par
with what you get in something like
PowerDirector and it also does support
different video sizes and formats but
once you've selected your size and
you've centered to create your video you
actually can't swap between them once
your project is centered the free version
of Kiner master does have a watermark or
branding on it when you go to export
your video but you can pay to remove
that and any ads that are in the app
paying either around $5 20 per month or
around $42 for the year to be able to
remove those but really again
considering what you're getting access
to this seems like an absolute
no-brainer for someone that's serious
about creating videos on their Android
device so keen to master them would be a
great option for someone either beginner
or right through to advanced that wants
more advanced editing features and more
control over their editing and the third
one on the short list was power director
now this app has been the overall winner
in the last few times that we've done
videos like this and once again it's
another really powerful video editing
app on Android with an interface that is
surprisingly really simple and really
easy and intuitive to use I know I'm
saying this a lot but this is part of
why these apps were shortlisted as well
its features and usability and all of
these apps have those so once again even
if you're an absolute beginner it's
gonna be really easy to jump into
PowerDirector and be easier to find
everything and to get up and editing
fast PowerDirector has really great file
compatibility too and it's again
supports 4k videos and if you're going
to be shooting on other cameras then
it's highly likely that those video
files are going to work straight out of
the box editing on PowerDirector without
the need to convert them like kinah
master it also supports multiple tracks
of video and audio and you've also got
the option again with in-app purchases
to purchase things like extra Tran
decisions and titles and effects and all
those sorts of things but I do want to
say that the effects and the transitions
inside of PowerDirector and even the
titles inside of their the presets
they're actually really really amazing
and there's a lot of options in there
PowerDirector also has decent color
correction tools which was something
that was lacking in Kenner master and it
also links with the PC version of
PowerDirector so if you're a PC user and
you've got PowerDirector on your PC you
can center your edit on your Android
device using this app and then you can
transfer it to your PC and finish
editing over there and just the same as
with kinder master PowerDirector does
support different video sizes in
different formats but once you've
actually centered editing your project
you can't switch between them so if you
center out editing your video down for
YouTube and then decide that it's going
to be better off on something like
Instagram stories and you want to
convert it from widescreen to portrait
then that's something that is going to
be rather difficult to do without
centering over or exporting it all and
importing it back in now while this
definitely isn't a deal-breaker it is a
little annoying especially when you see
how easy it is to do that in an app like
in shot but you can convert and switch
between the different formats as you go
it's a little annoying that
PowerDirector and Kino master don't have
that so in regards to the cost there is
a free version but again it's got a
watermark on it and you're actually
limited to your exports to 720p so you
can't export 1080 or 4k with the free
version to remove the watermark and to
unlock all the features you can either
pay around $7 50 per month or you've got
the option for three months access for
around $5 per month or you can pay for
12 months access for around 53 dollars
per year alright so from all of this if
we had to pick a winner
the number one app for me right now is
going to go to PowerDirector it's stable
it's fast it's powerful it supports the
multiple video layers the multiple audio
layers there's great control over your
color correction there's really precise
editing tools in there there's a good
range of supported file types
there's 4k video editing it really is
the complete solution for video editing
on Android it's easy if you're an
absolute beginner to get up to speed in
here or if you're more advanced and
looking for those more advanced features
than they're in here as well it's also
what I currently use to edit down
Instagram stories as well which we're
going to
I'll link that up in the cards so now
that you've got your Android video
editing app sorted if you're looking to
improve your video editing and you're
looking for the most efficient most
effective way to edit your videos down
without any wasted time or any rework
then check out the link on-screen now to
our free PDF guide which will take you
through the ultimate video editing
process and I'll see you soon